Document ID: esgreport
Filename: esgreport.pdf
Content:
2
Who We Are
World Recognitions
Integrated Annual Report 2022 -23
Our Journey
What Got Us Here
Sustainability Policy
ESG Governance and Policies
Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Identification
Stakeholders Identified and Material Issues
Stakeholders Engagement and ESG Roadmap
Rejuvenating the Environment
Enabling Stakeholders to Rise
Building Enduring Business
Materiality Impact for External Stakeholders
Making Supply Chain Sustainable
Supplier Performance review
Observations and Recommendations –Supplier Performance Review Feedback
Customer Centricity Office (CCO)
Customer Centricity Office (CCO) Initiatives
CSAT
Sustainable Development Goals
ESG Disclosure
Environment and Climate
Environment Management System ISO 14001:2015
Occupational Health and Safety Management System ISO 45001:2018
Human Rights: Due Diligence Process
Human Rights Assessment: Review and Mitigation
Corporate Governance
Risk Management at Tech Mahindra
Emerging Risks
Making Sustainability Personal
Biodiversity Commitments
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
13
14
15
20
21
22
25
27
29
31
32
33
34
36
4723
24
40
45
54533
Committed to pursue ‘Purpose 
Beyond Profits’
Embedding ESG principles into 
our core strategy
Maintaining a balance 
between sustainability and 
overall business profitability
Creating a long -term positive 
impact on the planet and 
society
Providing greater value for all 
our stakeholders•Lead sustainability 
transformation through 
process improvements, 
innovation and disruption
•To be rated amongst the 
top brands to work for
•Focused responsible 
business growthTo be in Top 5 IT services 
of the world and sustain 
leadership position in India 
for sustainability.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.4
Ranked 1stamongst the top IT companies of the 
world in the “TSV IT Services” segment with a 
score of 89 and 100 percentile
Dun & BradstreetDow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2022The only Indian company out of 44 companies 
that have been awarded HRH The Prince of 
Wales Terra Carta Seal in 2021
HRH The Prince of Wales Terra Carta Seal
SUSTAINALYTICS
MSCIRanked #1 for our sustainability effortsS&P Global -Sustainability Yearbook 2023
Carbon Disclosure Project  (CDP) 2022
‘A’ Score in water security, ‘A -’ in climate change 
and listed on the supplier engagement 
leaderboard
Businessworld The Sustainable World 
Conclave 2023
Ranked #1 amongst top 25 most sustainable IT 
companies in India
FTSE4Good Index Series 2022
Constituent of Financial Times Stock Exchange -
Russell Group
Sustainalytics 2023
Included in the top -rated ESG companies list
Capri Global Capital HURUN List Impact 50 
for SDG Goals
Ranked #2 with a sustainability score of 46
Morgan Stanley Capital International 2022
Awarded ‘A’ rating badge
Dun & Bradstreet India
Top performer in the ESG performance in software 
and BPM sector
Dun & Bradstreet ESG Leadership Summit 
2023
Felicitated in the category ‘Environmental Risks 
and Opportunities’ 
Economic Times Sustainability Congress 
2022
Recognized for adopting valuable sustainable 
initiatives
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
5
The report is aligned to include 
the recommendations of the 
Taskforce on Carbon Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The standalone report 
is prepared as per the 
Integrated Reporting 
Framework
The report is aligned to 
include recommendations of
Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB)
TheGRI Standards are first 
global standards for sustainability 
reporting. The performance of the 
company to achieve its strategic 
objectives and outcomes is reported 
using GRI Standards 2021
Aligned to UNGC principles
Purpose. People. 
Performance.
Assurance of 
sustainability 
disclosures by KPMG 
(external 3rdparty)
Purpose. People. 
Performance.
Assurance of 
sustainability 
disclosures by KPMG
(external 3rdparty)
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.62016
•Listed in Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices (DJSI)
•and rated “A
•Constituent of the 
FTSE4Good Emerging Index 
•Rated Gold in CII 
Sustainability Plus Corporate 
Assessments 2017
•DJSI World Index & Emerging 
market
•Silver Class distinction in the 
DJSI Sustainability Yearbook
•Listed as ‘Rising Star’ in the 
CDP’s India Leaders
•Member of UNGC
•CDP Global Supplier A List
•FTSE4Good Emerging Index 2018
•Made it to DJSI World Ranking & 
DJSI Emerging Markets Index
•World Leader for Supplier 
engagement on Climate Change 
by CDP
•Listed as a ‘Rising Star’ in the 
CDP’s India Leaders
•Emission targets approved by SBTi 
•Awarded Prime status by ISS -
oekom , 
•Included in the RobecoSAM
Sustainability Yearbook & received 
Silver Class distinction 
•Awarded ‘Silver CSR Rating’ by 
EcoVadis
•Constituent of the FTSE4Good 
Index2019
•Recognized as part of CDP 
Global Supplier A List and 
leadership ranking of A -in CDP
•Made it to DJSI World Ranking 
and DJSI Emerging Markets 
Index
•World Leader for supplier 
engagement on climate 
change by CDP
•Included in the RobecoSAM
2019 Sustainability Yearbook 
with a Silver Class distinction 
•Awarded Prime status by ISS -
OEKOM, for our sustainability 
initiatives
•Achieved ‘Silver CSR rating’ by 
ECOVADIS
•Constituent of FTSE4Good 
Index Series 
•Signatory to UNGC
•SBTi targets approved2020
•Recognized as part of CDP 
Global Supplier A List and  
leadership ranking of A -in CDP
•DJSI World Index -2019: Re -
emerged as a leader in 
sustainability
•DJSI Emerging Market category: 
One of 12 Indian companies 
•Ranked among the Top 6 
companies of the world in the 
“TSV* ‘IT Services and Internet 
Software and Services” segment 
•Constituent of FTSE4Good Index 
Series 
•Awarded Highest ‘Gold CSR 
Rating’ by EcoVadis with 94%.
•Microsoft Global Supplier 
Leadership Award on climate 
change 2019
•Achieved GOLD performance 
level in TIA which is accredited 
by ANSI
•Awarded Prime status by ISS, 
our sustainability performance 
among the best 10% in the 
sector
•Signatory to UNGC2021
•Carbon Disclosure Project -2020: 
The only Indian IT company to 
score ‘A’ in both CDP Climate and 
CDP Water
•CDP SER: Included in the Climate 
Disclosure Project (CDP) Supplier 
Engagement Rating (SER) A list 
2020
•DJSI Emerging Markets 2020: One 
of only 11 Indian Companies
•DJSI World Index 2020: One 
amongst only 3 IT companies from 
India
•Corporate Knights: Only Indian 
company recognized amongst the 
‘2021 Global 100 Most 
Sustainable Corporations’
•S&P Global -Sustainability 
Yearbook 2021: Awarded with 
Bronze Class and included in the 
Top 10 IT Service Companies 
Globally
•Winner of Mahindra Group 
Sustainability Performance Award 
2020•CDP 2021: The only Indian IT 
company to score ‘A’ in both 
Climate Change and Water 
Security
•CDP SER : Recognized as CDP 
Supplier Engagement Leader 
2021
•DJSI 2021: Ranked 1stamongst 
top IT companies of the world in 
the “TSV IT Services” segment 
with score of 85 and 99 
percentile
•S&P Global –Sustainability 
Yearbook 2022 : One of only 2 IT 
services companies awarded with 
Gold Class
•DJSI World Index 2021: One 
amongst only 5 IT companies from 
India.
•DJSI Emerging Markets 2021: One 
of only 15 Indian Companies•CDP 2022: ‘A’ Score in Water Security & ‘A -’ in Climate Change & CDP 
SER 2022 : Recognized as CDP Supplier Engagement Leader 2022
•DJSI 2022: Ranked amongst the top IT companies of the world in the 
“TSV IT Services” segment with score of 89 and 100 percentile
•S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2023 : Amongst the Top 1% of 
organizations in the global IT Services segment.
•MSCI 2022: Awarded ‘A’ rating badge
•FTSE4Good Index Series 2022: Constituent of Financial Times Stock 
Exchange -Russell Group
•Sustainalytics 2023: Included in the Top -rated ESG companies list
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
2022
20237
CHANGING 
CLIMATE
•Scope 1+2 reduced by 
40% against base year 
FY15 -16
•Reduction of 17,553 
MTCO2e GHG emissions 
by renewable energy
•Supporters of TCFD and 
caring for climate
•Identified risks through 
Scenario Analysis for IEA 
NZE 2050, 2DS and RCP 
4.5, 8.5
•Implemented Internal 
Carbon Price of $13 per 
ton CO2eWATER 
STEWARDSHIP
•Recycled and reused 
more than 200 million 
Liters
•3.06 million liters of 
ground water level 
Recharged through 
Rainwater Harvesting 
Plants in FY 2022 -23
•29 tonnes (22%) of food 
waste is converted to 
manure through OWC & 
Vermicomposting
ENERGY 
UTILIZATION
•Increased RE from 
1.77% (in baseline year 
FY15 -16) to 21.90% in 
FY 2022 -23
•Energy intensity reduced 
by 63% against base 
year FY15 -16 against 
employee headcount
•10,185.72 MTCO2e 
through LEDs, sensors 
and efficient equipment
Signatory To 
Business 
Ambition of 
1.5 °C and The 
Climate Pledge 
to Reach Net 
Zeroby 2040
Reduce, 
Recycle, 
Recover, and 
Reuse wasteCarbon price 
of $13 
ImplementedMaking 
Sustainability 
Personal
Our Commitment 
to Increase RE 
mix to 50% till 
FY 2024 -25 and 
90% by FY 
2029 -30TCFD 
Supporters
Carbon 
Neutrality by 
FY 2030 & 
Net Zero by 
FY20352°C SBTi 
Targets 
Approved -
22% by FY30 
& 50% by 
FY50Compliance 
and
Certification
UNGC 
Signatory of 
“Caring for 
Climate”Water 
StewardshipSustainable 
Supply Chain
Tech Mahindra has integrated 
sustainability into our core 
strategy with the intent of 
extending our responsibility from 
immediate benefits to ensuring 
long-term good. Our sustainability 
practices and initiatives, including 
carbon pricing, science -based 
targets, and investment in green 
technology solutions will help us 
in moving towards a low carbon 
economy while creating a greater 
value for our stakeholders.
Sandeep Chandna, 
Chief Sustainability Officer
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.NEW TERRAIN
•71% of waste 
reused/recycled/upcycled
/ sold to recycler
•Signatory to Business 
Ambition of 1.5 °C and 
member of 1.5 °C Supply 
Chain Leaders by 
Exponential Roadmap 
Initiative
•Audited and assessed 
142 key suppliers on ESG 
aspects till FY 2022 -23
•Conducted capacity 
building workshop for our 
200+ key suppliers on 
sustainability practicesENVIRONMENTAL 
TARGETS
•Carbon neutrality by FY 2030
•Net zero target by FY 2035
•Increase renewable energy mix 
to 50% by FY 2024 -25 & 90% 
by FY 2029 -30
•Zero waste to landfill 
certification for 100% owned 
facilities by FY 2025 -26
•Reduce energy consumption by 
20% till FY 2029 -30 against 
base year FY 2020 -21.““8Tech Mahindra’s undeterred 
focus on good corporate 
governance is strengthened by 
our commitment to sustainable 
development. We aim to follow 
and promote sustainable 
business practices and to co -
create sustainable business value 
for our stakeholders to achieve 
their sustainability goals. We 
believe that environmentally 
sustainable business operations 
will empower us to create a 
sustainable future. 
Through the policy we shall 
contribute to development of a 
sustainable future for our 
business by: 
•Making workplace sustainable  
•Leveraging innovative green 
solutions and technologies  
•Collaborating with customers 
and partners to develop 
sustainable solutions to solve 
ecological problems 
•Promoting sustainability in 
supply chain
Tech Mahindra as a global IT 
services and consulting company, 
recognizes the impacts of its 
business operations on the 3 key 
pillars of sustainability viz people, 
planet, and profit. Tech Mahindra 
makes continuous efforts to 
optimize efficiency across the 
environmental, social and 
governance framework of the 
company.Sustainability is at the very core 
of Tech Mahindra. We have 
aligned our strategy, culture, 
and future to sustainable 
growth, and will continue to 
follow a focused approach 
towards all aspects ESG. We 
stress on unleashing the 
potential of our associates, 
growing their skill quotient, and 
building a workplace where they 
truly belong. We continued to 
drive positive change in our 
communities while continuing 
our journey towards 
decarbonization.
CP Gurnani
MD & CEO,
Tech Mahindra““
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
9Sustainability Policy Climate Change Policy
Water Management PolicyEnvironmental Policy
Sustainable Supply Chain Management PolicySSCM Supplier Code Of 
ConductHuman Rights Policy
Health Safety and 
Environment Policy
Green Procurement 
PolicyBusiness Responsibility 
PolicyWaste Management Policy
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
10
In identifying our 
stakeholders, we consider 
impact on:
•Revenue
•P&L
•Business Continuity
•Brand Value
•Operating Cost
•Compliance and Regulation
•Business Growth
External Stakeholders 
include:
•Customers
•Investors and Shareholders
•Partners and Collaborators
•Government and Local Bodies
•Academic institutions
•Suppliers and Vendors
•Local Communities and NGOs
Internal Stakeholders
include:
•Organization Facility/Location
•Department Heads
•AssociatesAt Tech Mahindra, we undertake 
materiality as one of the critical 
processes in identifying and prioritizing 
the most pertinent issues. We review 
the progress of our material matters 
annually after discussions with our 
stakeholders and update some of the 
aspects of materiality matrix if needed.
Ourmateriality assessment 
isintegrated into company's ERM 
process, and it is signed off by 
oursenior management i.e., Chief 
Sustainability Officer.Identify
material 
topics and 
their Impacts
Shortlisting of topics
based on likely impact
on the companyIdentify actual and 
potential Impacts
Assess the severity, likelihood of 
occurrence and it’s impact on 
economy, environment, and 
people, including human rights, 
across its activities and business 
relationships, both current and 
potential
Engagement with
Internal and External 
Stakeholders
Questionnaire -based interactions
with customers, investors, NGOs
(TMF), partners and collaborators,
academic institutions, and
suppliers/ vendors, and internal 
stakeholders -respective business 
heads, subject matter experts within 
the organisation
Analysis with 
Prioritisation
Analysis of topics for their 
severity and irremediability, 
prioritization with respect to 
severity of the impact time of 
action required
Identify the 
remendability of 
negative impacts 
and risks
Review of material topics 
from a risk perspective, 
scenario planning (climate), 
evaluation of likelihood and 
impact, linkage with the risk 
register.Linkage to 
business 
strategy and 
performance
Defining KPIs to monitor 
performance, linking with 
the balanced score card of 
the key departments and 
employeesMATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT 
PROCESS
The materiality topics are identified and 
aligned on the likelihood of it’s impact 
on the Company based on our 
stakeholder engagement process. Our 
material topics are aligned with 
roadmap targets, policies, procedures, 
risk register, strategies and BSC.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
11Suppliers and Vendors
•Supply Chain 
Management
•Energy and Emissions 
Management Awareness 
•Climate Change
Employees
•Employee Engagement, 
Safety and Wellbeing
•Talent and Skill 
Management 
•Diversity and InclusionInvestors & 
Shareholders 
•Ethics and Compliance
•Corporate Governance
•Innovation 
•Diversity and Inclusion
•Economic Performance
Government & Local 
Bodies
•Ethics and Compliance
•Corporate Citizenship
•Climate Change
Local Communities 
and NGOs 
•Corporate Citizenship
•Diversity and Inclusion
•Economic PerformanceCustomers
•Innovation
•Cyber Security and Data 
Privacy
•Supply Chain Management
•Ethics and Compliance
Partners and 
Collaborators
•Climate Impact
•Innovation
•Energy and Emissions 
Management
Academic Institutions
•Employee Engagement, 
Wellbeing and Safety
•Talent and Skill 
Management 
•Innovation
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
12
Engagement with stakeholders 
helps us understand their 
explicit and tacit needs that 
inform our strategy and 
operational decisions. We follow 
a robust process for 
engagement with both internal 
and external stakeholders based 
on the need and context. We 
adopt various methods to 
ensure that we understand 
stakeholder's needs and 
concerns. We also effectively 
work towards addressing these 
needs.ESG roadmap -Our material 
topics are aligned and duly 
approved by the respective 
department heads .
The performance of relevant 
personnel is linked to the 
balanced scorecards and KRAs. 
The targets have been set by 
the department heads based on 
materiality issues. 
Environmental, strategy and 
people related risks were 
evaluated in terms of likelihood 
of occurrence and its impact on 
business.
For more details on ESG Roadmap, 
please refer to page 140 onwards of  
Integrated Annual Report 2022 -23For more on details on Stakeholder 
Engagement, please refer to pdf page 
127 & Materiality on pdf page 132 of  
Integrated Annual Report 2022 -23
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.13AspectMahindra 
Sustainability 
FrameworkTargetBase Year 
(2020 -21)2022 -23Target year 
(2025 -26)
Employee 
Engagement 
and RetentionBuild a great place 
to workImprovement in 
employee 
engagement score3.7 -* 4.15
Gender 
DiversityFoster inclusive 
developmentIncreasing 
percentage of 
women in senior 
management 8.08 10.22 14%
Integrating 
Sustainability 
into BusinessMake 
sustainability 
personal Sustainability 
training of total 
associates25% 100% 100%
Talent 
RetentionBuild a great place 
to workIT attrition rate % 13.3 14.8 16.5
CSRFoster inclusive 
developmentDirect and
indirect
beneficiaries
of (Figures in
Lakhs)3.85 
(cumulativ
e 
from 
2012)0.62 
(Direct)
21.78 
(Indirect)0.7 (Direct)**
25 
(Indirect)**
Foster inclusive 
developmentSMART vocational 
training centres
across all locations 
of operations with
80% placement69 79 120
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
AspectMahindra 
Sustainability 
FrameworkTargetBase Year* 
(2015 -16)2022 -23Target 
Year 
(2025 -26)
GHG Emissions Achieve carbon 
neutralityReduction in Scope 1 -2 
GHG emissions in MTCO2e114,309 68,661.5369,729** 
(39% 
reduction)
WaterBecoming water 
positiveReduction in per capita 
freshwater consumption 
kL/employee13.73 4.8211** (20% 
decrease)
Waste 
ManagementEnsure no waste to 
landfillReduction in Paper 
Consumption in Tonnes93.37 12.6146.69** 
(50% 
reduction)
Ensure no waste to 
landfillComposting food waste at 
owned locations0 313 owned 
locations
* Base year for Environmental indicators is FY16 and start year (when target is set) is FY21.
** Many of our employees are still working from home. While taking targets for FY26, we have considered the increase in the n umber of 
associates working from office in future years which may lead to an increase in figures.
* Associate engagement survey is planned in Q2’ FY24.
** The target has been updated.14AspectMahindra 
Sustainability 
FrameworkTargetBase Year 
(2020 -21)2022 -23Target Year 
(2025 -2026)
Promoting 
InnovationEmbrace technology 
and innovationNumber of innovation 
contests and events per 
year57 30 80
Embrace technology 
and innovationNumber of ideas 
incubated in labs 
(including IRIS, IP and 
Makers Lab) per year20 30 40
Realization of 
opportunities 
from 
Innovation Embrace technology 
and innovationRevenue from innovative 
solutions (in USD million)355 520 700
Connecting 
with CustomersEnhance brand equity Customers connected 145 160 200
Supply ChainMake supply chain 
sustainableNumber of top suppliers 
to be audited yearly on 
sustainability parameters2 142 200
Reducing 
Carbon 
Footprint in 
Supply ChainMake supply chain 
sustainableEngaging with IT suppliers 
to estimate GHG emission 
from products 
manufactured for Tech 
Mahindra- 7 20
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) heads the Internal Security Group (ISG) 
function and chairs the Subsidiary Security Council, which comprises management leadership 
from our subsidiaries. He reports all cybersecurity risks to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of the 
executive management, and the risk management Committee of the Board. The CISO also 
updates all cybersecurity aspects to Manoj Bhat, a non -executive member of the Board, who 
has an oversight of cybersecurity strategy of the organization.
The CISO is aided by the data privacy function in overseeing and implementation of privacy 
practices across all our business functions.
15FY 2021 -22 FY 2022 -23
Category Total (A)Emp. Trained 
(B)% of Emp. 
Trained (B/A)Total (A)Emp. Trained 
(B)% of Emp. 
Trained (B/A)
Contractual 
Employees. 
(Other than 
permanent 
employees)12836 8902 69.40% 10494 8036 76.56%Material issues of external stakeholders are crucial for Tech Mahindra as they 
significantly influence business success, reputation, and sustainability. These issues 
encompass concerns that hold relevance for stakeholders, such as customers, 
contractors, investors, regulators, and communities. Prioritizing and addressing these 
material issues ensures alignment with broader societal expectations, boosting 
reputation, profitability, and long -term viability thereby fostering positive 
relationships and trust.
As per the materiality assessment conducted in FY 2023, we have identified two key 
material issues, human rights and waste management , which has significant impact 
on our external stakeholders:
•Our impact assessment of conducting human rights training for contractors / 
contractual employees (other than permanent) has revealed a positive impact on 
their living standards by ensuring zero cases of workplace discrimination. This has 
been derived using an Internal methodology.
•The training has helped in increasing awareness of these contractual employees on 
their basic human rights to safe working conditions, fair treatment at work, 
equitable compensation and access to various grievance redressal mechanisms 
which has led to increased productivity, job satisfaction and a healthier work 
environment. Enhanced employee well -being and satisfaction positively influence 
productivity and retention rates elevating the rights and living standards of 
contractual staff, benefiting both the employees and the organization. Human Rights
Output metric linked to human rights →% of Contractual staff trained on human rights
Impact metric to measure external impact →Reduction in number of cases of workplace 
discrimination 
76.56% Contractual staff trained on human rights in FY 2022 -23
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
16FY 2021 -22 FY 2022 -23
CategoryTotal Waste 
generated (A)Total Waste 
disposed to 
landfill (B)% of waste 
disposed to 
landfill
(B/A)Total Waste 
generated 
(A)Total Waste 
disposed to 
landfill (B)% of waste 
disposed to 
landfill
(B/A)
Waste 
Disposed to 
Landfill184.21 28.82 15.65% 388.02 112.02 28.87%•We have conducted an impact assessment of the material issue of “Waste 
Management” by monitoring the adverse impact of waste disposed to landfill that 
causes potential health hazards to local communities, air and water pollution thus 
endangering social and ecological ecosystem. This has been derived using an 
Internal methodology.
•We ensure that all waste generated from our operations including Hazardous and 
Non-hazardous waste is reused, repurposed, or recycled through authorized 
recyclers and vendors in a responsible manner.
•We strive to reduce the waste disposal to landfill and we have a robust system of 
segregation at the source which is collected and managed using the principles of 
the circular economy.
•We maintain plastic -free campuses and encourage all stakeholders to use eco -
friendly and biodegradable materials spreading awareness on preventing single -use 
plastic.
•Organic waste converters (OWC) and vermicomposting plants at our campuses 
convert food waste to manure which also cuts down logistics emissions and 
reduces waste to landfill.
During FY23, we recycled 22% of our food wastage (29 tons) to manure through 
Organic Waste Converters and Vermicomposting units.
•We have taken target to make 100% of our facilities Zero Waste to Landfill 
certified by FY 2025 -26 as a part of our five -year ESG Roadmap FY22 -26.
•3 of our locations are already Zero Waste to Landfill certified.Waste Management
Output metric linked to waste management →% of waste disposed to landfill
Impact metric to measure external impact →% of decrease in air quality and 
associated health impacts
28.87% of Waste Disposed to Landfills in FY 2022 -23
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
17
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.ZWL Certificate -Bengaluru18
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.ZWL Certificate -Hyderabad19
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.ZWL Certificate -Chennai20Tech Mahindra recognizes that our suppliers are independent 
entities; however, the business practices and actions of a supplier 
may impact on or reflect upon Tech Mahindra
Sustainability is deemed to make significant contribution to 
company’s success, and suppliers plays a major role in this
We bind all our suppliers to the following social, ethical and 
environmental minimum standards of conduct and encourage each 
supplier to adopt practices with preferred and favored standards
We actively engage with our key suppliers for making our supply 
chain sustainable
Suppliers must share our commitment to best practice, continuous 
improvement, and collaborative approaches, and commit to our 
requirements as per the SSCM Supplier Code of Conduct 
OUR SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT POLICY 
INCLUDES :
Seek high standard performance from our key suppliers 
through  SSCM questionnaire and Supply Chain Code of 
Conduct
Deliver social and environmental benefits for Tech 
Mahindra, our suppliers and the broader community, by 
encouraging practical and effective social, ethical and 
environmental responsibility by our supplier
Encourage our suppliers to make available cost -effective, 
environmentally and socially responsible products and services
Create other benefits for our company, such as reduced costs, 
improved risk management, enhanced quality, and product or 
service innovation
SSCM Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainable Supply Chain Management Policy
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
21
•We evaluate and review performance for supplier’s targets (both 
quantitative and qualitative) taken on ESG aspects and their future.
•We look ethical and human right practices and beyond compliance at their 
connect with their employees, how they communicate, details of compliance 
processes and polices, capacity building and awareness on green and 
environment.
•We evaluate our suppliers based on their transparency in reporting their 
sustainability details publicly and their participation in indices like CDP 
climate change and water security, CDP supply chain, DJSI, and more.
•We prefer suppliers who
▪Set environmental/ social targets
▪Report publicly on these indicators
▪Conduct independent audits against appropriate standards or 
certification schemes
•We ensure that all our suppliers are aligned to the minimum social, ethical 
and environmental standards of conduct set out in the Supplier Code of 
Conduct and encourage them to adopt our preferred and favored standards.
•We encourage our Suppliers to track and reduce GHG emissions and 
encourage Sustainability practices.
•While reviewing we encourage vendors to use increasing amount of recycled 
and recyclable content into making of new products to support progress 
towards circular economy.
•We have defined our tier one suppliers as the top suppliers who avail 92% of 
our spend. The proportionate % of total suppliers assessed on Human rights 
over the past 3 years is 92.72% and % of total suppliers assessed where 
risks/gaps have been identified is 37.25%.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
22
Good 
PointsFocus 
Areas
•Code of conduct and 
workplace management:
▪Workplace management 
policies
▪Training/induction program 
▪Written labor policy in place
▪Written diversity/equal 
opportunity for employment 
policy
▪Proactive in 
learning/development for 
employees
•Occupational health and 
safety:
▪Written safety and health 
policy
▪Strictly following health and 
safety checklist for employees
▪Conducting safety related 
training for employees
•Environment management:
▪Written environment policy•Tracking GHG emissions 
(Scope 1+2) for operations
•Reporting the emission on 
global platform 
•Establish the environmental 
targets and objectives to 
improve environment 
performance
•Set up sustainability target 
and goal to minimize impact 
on environment.
•Should have a written BCP 
policy
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.23•Customer Centricity Office implements organization -wide proactive and 
reactive initiatives to understand the customer challenges and escalations 
and works to align Tech Mahindra’s processes, policies, systems and 
resources in sync with customers’ business processes and future direction to 
deliver an enhanced customer experience.
•The CCO office is headed by the Chief Customer Officer who reports directly 
to the MD & CEO.
•The CCO team interacts periodically with customers and partners along with 
the delivery, sales, and support functions to facilitate improved ‘customer 
first’ outcomes and drives end -to-end resolution of challenges, escalations, 
or issues which may adversely impact the quality or level of service delivery.
•The primary function of the customer centricity office is to track and 
manage customer challenges and escalations across touchpoints and 
identify and ensure that critical cases are expedited through appropriate 
channels.
•The CCO uses a four -level categorization mechanism to rate and channel 
escalations (C1, C2, C3, C4). The first two levels (C1 & C2) are generally 
resolved by the business unit under the monitoring of the CCO. In the event 
of delays, the CCO proactively gets involved to aid the faster resolution. The 
CCO tracks the high priority customer escalations (C3 & C4) till closure and 
touches base with customers or account managers to assure them about the 
quick resolution of escalation with specific action plans involving all service 
delivery stakeholders. The key takeaway from each escalation in terms of 
learning and the requisite adaptations are made systemically across all 
accounts.
•The CCO team tracks milestones and ensures the execution of the action 
plan across program lifecycle:
▪Acknowledgement –Acknowledge escalation and provide assurance and 
timeline for resolution.
▪Action Plan –Stakeholders from internal resolution team to create action 
plan to address key issues.
▪Approval –Customer evaluates, modifies and approves action plan to resolve 
issue within timeline.
▪Feedback and Closure –Action plan closure for positive input otherwise 
seek new action plan.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
24Account Escalation Dashboard (AED): It is a predictive analytics tool that 
enables stakeholders, most importantly rainmakers, to forecast any potential 
escalated accounts and respective risk areas by taking inputs from sales, 
delivery, quality, and contract management commercial (CMC) groups. The 
AED provides a detailed overview and diagnostics, assists in reporting issues to 
the senior management and helps in tracking critical issues until closure.
Account Status Indicator (ASI): It is a user -friendly mobile app for Rainmakers 
and CDMs to capture real -time red, amber, or green (RAG) status for their 
designated accounts post their discussions with the customers and taking 
delivery feedback from the customers. Each status has been codified to clearly 
define the context and enable appropriate alignment of resources. ASI helps 
rainmakers to generate a proactive alert to swiftly and effectively resolve 
situations which may result in serious customer escalations at the topmost 
level.
Pro-alert Tool: It is a tool where all the concerned delivery stakeholders can 
share details of the issues faced in their respective programs. The CCO team 
assists them in expediting the resolution of the issue with critical issues being 
immediately updated in the AED portal and tracked until closure. Alerts are 
raised across various categories, including resourcing, contractual, and service 
levels, with identified SPOCs to address any breaches.
Customer Pulse Predictor: It is a new proactive tool which is developed and is 
used to measure the health of every program from the delivery viewpoint to 
integrate with the other inputs. The program managers provide a Red, Amber, 
and Green status of their respective programs to enable early intervention by 
the CCO.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
25•CSAT process is named as voice of customer (VOC) and is owned by 
the CCO Office .
•CSAT is used to measure customer satisfaction and understand the 
extent to which the services delivered by Tech Mahindra meets/ 
exceeds the customer expectations .
•CSAT is carried out quarterly for Program CSAT to track the 
performance of a program, identify problem areas and ensure that a 
proactive problem resolution plan is created and followed through .
•Survey is sent to the clients for ongoing active programs as well as for 
programs approaching closure. In case of a low score, the VOC team 
understands the customer challenges and resolves their concerns. The 
survey feedback is analyzed to create a proactive action plan to have 
an early -stage capture and resolution mechanism to prevent future 
issues. The knowledge management approach is applied through our 
predictive tool across other customers to continuously improve our 
systems and processes. An in -house automated GDPR compliant tool 
is used for the CSAT process .
•The CSAT survey captures customer feedback around three key 
aspects of customer satisfaction: service and delivery, teaming and 
engagement and governance and management .
•The CCO owns the deployment of the CSAT survey to identify areas of 
improvement and follow up with the delivery team to implement action plan 
with systems and processes to ensure seamless delivery and support to 
address any challenges across the program lifecycle.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
26The CSAT survey process involves the following steps:
1.Schedule survey –Theprogram managers, delivery heads, quality 
team andother stakeholders informed about the survey schedule 
with the expected timeline for every step.
2.Collect data –Thedetails of the customers are collected for 
triggering the survey in the CSAT tool and the survey questionnaire is 
mapped based on the type of customer engagement and pricing 
model of the contract -Fixed Price and time and material.
3.Trigger survey –TheSurvey is triggered by the VOC team through 
the CSAT tool after all the customer details are entered in the tool 
and submitted to the VOC team by the SPOCs.
4.Share survey feedback results –Thefeedbacks submitted by the 
customer are shared with the pertinent stakeholders (business 
development managers, program managers, and more) for their 
respective programs.
5.Survey analysis –The survey feedbacks areanalyzed and the insights 
areshared with all the concerned stakeholders for taking 
corrective actions.
6.Track the action plan –The program managers and business 
development managers areasked to prepare an action plan for 
programs with overall feedback rating less than 4 or an attribute 
rating less than 3 to address the customer concerns and this action 
plan is tracked till closure by the VOC team.
Total 
Eligible 
ProgramsTotal 
Eligible 
Programs 
with 
surveys 
initiatedData 
coverage 
%Total 
Programs 
with 
received 
responsesResponse 
Rate %CSAT 
ScoreCSAT 
Index
1766 1728 98% 1317 76% 4.46 4.46Tech Mahindra has achieved a CSAT score of 4.46 against the target of 4.5and 
CSAT index of 4.46 against the target of 4.0during FY 2022 -23
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
% of Repeat Business
Particulars Q1 FY23 Q2 FY23 Q3 FY23 Q4 FY23 FY22 -23
No. of Active Clients 
(A)1262 1279 1290 1297 5128
Repeat clients (B) 1237 1215 1200 1193 4845
% of Repeat Business 
(C = B/A)98% 95% 93% 92% 94%27SDG 
prioritized 
and 
identifiedProject implemented and impacts of action
SDG 1
No Poverty 
and SDG 2 
Zero Hunger•AR/VR based training on sustainable agriculture practices.
•Solutions include Panchang (weather prediction), Atmanirbhar Krishi 
(low connectivity frien dly informa tion on crops, soil, and water), a 
databank for sustainable pest management, and more.
SDG 3
Good Health 
and Well -
Being•Incorporated the ‘Wellness before Business’ mantra across the 
organization, ensuring that our associates as well as our CSR 
beneficiaries experience good health and well -being as a priority. 
Taking care of our people and our communities is embedded in our 
business philosophy and is integral to ESG Governance at TechM.
•The Employee Health and Safety team implements our organization -
wide, holistic Wealth of Wellness (WoW) programme . It leads a wide 
range of health and wellness initiatives, which includes physical health, 
occupational, psychological, spiritual, social, environmental, financial 
and intellectual health.
SDG 4
Quality 
Education•Run programmes like ARISE, ARISE+, Shikshaantar , mobile science labs 
to help provide quality education to school -going children from 
underprivileged and marginalized communities in the society.
•During FY23, TMF’s education programmes have more than 19,000 
beneficiaries.
•Mahindra Educational Institutions (MEI) help enhance access to quality 
higher education in high opportunity areas to drive education and 
livelihood ambitions.
SDG 5
Gender 
Equality•Dedicated policies to encourage and support women as well as 
members of the LGBTQ+ communities through gender -agnostic POSH 
policy and gender -neutral infrastructure.
•Equally committed to fostering an inclusive work culture, with specific 
steps taken to encourage persons with disabilities on our teams.
SDG 6
Clean Water 
and 
Sanitation•Partnered with Smart Energy Water (SEW) to accelerate digital 
transformation for the energy/ water utility industry.
•TMF provided capacity building for sanitation workers besides the 
‘Flush the Virus’ programme for providing access to sanitized toilets.
SDG 7 
Affordable 
and clean 
energy•Have launched our new business vertical to provide ESG offerings. This 
includes services such as ESG consulting, new -age technology -enabled 
energy and resource optimization solutions, reporting platforms, audit, 
reporting services and risk management platforms for accelerating 
sustainability initiatives.
SDG 8 
Decent 
Work and 
Economic 
Growth•Our contribution in this value creation process is through ensuring 
business sustainability and futureproofing by means of helping our 
associates with appropriate opportunities to upskill and grow in their 
careers.
•During FY23, our SMART and SMART+ programmes have benefited 
more than 22,000 young lives.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
28SDG 
prioritized 
and identifiedProject implemented  and impacts of action
SDG 9 
Industry, 
Innovation and 
Infrastructure•Committed to using our expertise in technology as well as our 
sustainability initiatives to help our clients enhance their impacts 
under sustainability, and thus acting as a force multiplier for 
sustainability across sectors, globally.
SDG 10 
Reduced 
Inequalities•Focus on diversity and inclusion is reflected in our CSR policy and 
our ESG Governance. We ensure that at least 50% of CSR 
beneficiaries of TMF’s programmes under education, employability, 
and disability are women and girls while 10% of our beneficiaries 
are Persons with Disabilities.
SDG 11 –
Sustainable 
Cities and 
Communities•Continue to drive focused efforts to reduce our carbon footprint by 
using more efficient equipment, minimizing our use of water and 
electricity as well as reducing our waste generated by our 
operations. We continue to enhance our initiatives to conserve 
natural resources as well as biodiversity.
SDG 13 
Climate Action•Our climate strategy involves participating across various platforms 
and initiatives dedicated to driving targeted action.
•We are a signatory to the collective global businesses’ ambition of 
1.5°C; committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2030 and net zero 
by 2035; 1.5 °C Supply Chain Leaders by Exponential Roadmap 
Initiative (ERI) and ‘The Climate Pledge’. Our 2 °C emission reduction 
targets are approved by SBTi and we are one of the few companies 
to implement an Internal Carbon Price (USD 13/MTCO2e in FY23).
SDG 17
Partnership 
for the Goals•Worked in partnership with government agencies such as the NITI 
Aayog and global organizations like UNGC, WEF, TERI, CDP, 
Austrade, etc. to support public policy formulation for societal 
welfare. We participate in various global summits and conferences 
on climate action.
•Maintained membership with Industry Associations including CII, 
GSMA, Software Technology Parks of India and some local and 
regional Industry Associations to share and disseminate knowledge 
and best practices for creating technology -enabled solutions for 
society.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
29Social
•The average amount spent per FTE on 
training and development of both IT 
and BPS associates is USD 100.08, i.e., 
INR 8083.
•The human capital return on 
investment for FY 2022 -23 is 1.22Environment
•Carbon neutral by FY30 
•Emission targets aligned with 1.5 °C 
and SBTi approved 2 °C targets of 
scope 1+2 emissions reduction by 
22% by FY30 and 50% by FY50  
•Increase renewable energy to 50% by 
FY 2024 -25 and 90% by FY 2029 -30
•Signatory to UNGC, The Climate 
Pledge and Business Ambition of 
1.5 °C
The Code of Ethical Business Conduct is non -negotiable and in case of non -compliance, an 
appropriate consequence management will be initiated, depending on the nature and 
severity of the violations, and in accordance with company policies. The consequences 
include withholding or denial of remuneration benefits/ 
appraisals/promotions/raise/certifications/onsite opportunities. They may even face 
disciplinary actions including termination based on the nature of violation and company’s 
disciplinary investigation process.
Long term incentives are given to associates who have been with the company for more 
than 5 years. The benefits to the associates include certificate, congratulatory plaque, and 
a cash award to celebrate their association with the company; additional leaves linked to 
the number of years served; variable pay linked to individual performance measured 
throughout the year; associate stock options (ESOPs)/ restricted stock units (RSUs) to 
those qualifying under performance criteria along with a reward for their niche, critical and 
long-term roles in the organization. The company has targets on material topics in the 
sustainability roadmap. These targets are added to the balanced score cards of function 
leaders and cascaded to their respective teams to ensure completion. The monitoring, 
implementation and achievement of these targets are considered while stock options 
(ESOPs/RSUs) are being given as a long -term incentive to associates.
Membership of Associations: Tech Mahindra participates in and support public policy 
formulation for societal welfare. We engage and collaborate with the government directly 
as well as through industry associations and international multilateral bodies like the UNGC 
and WEF.
A total membership fee of INR 3.6 crore was paid to various industry and trade associations 
that represent our interests at government levels and help address issues with 
policymakers. We paid INR 91.25 lakh to Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) 
association, INR 49.99 lakh to National Association of Software and Service Companies 
(NASSCOM), INR 22.49 lakh to World Economic Forum (WEF); INR 5 lakh to United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC); INR 6 lakh to Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and INR 5.8 
lakh to Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry (ASSOCHAM) among others.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.30Performance Appraisal: Tech Mahindra has a mid -term as well as an annual 
appraisal and follows a multidimensional performance appraisal process. All our 
eligible associates are appraised through a Performance Indicator system which 
integrates all the 3 types of performance appraisals, i.e.
1.Management by objectives –The systematic use of measurable yearly 
goals and targets agreed between the line manager and associates.
2.Multi -dimensional 180 -degree feedback –Associates are appraised by 
their managers and unit heads. Also, feedback is taken from the peers (not 
mandatory), and sometimes from the external clients/customers.
3.Formal comparative ranking –of employees within one employee 
category.
TechM’s performance andsuccession management process helps differentiate high -
potential talent with a 3 -level performance rating scale, transparent career mobility 
process and performance enabling conversations that focus on outcomes. We have a 
multi -layer reporting structure for each associate and have processes of 180 -degree 
feedback and associate satisfaction surveys. Our reverse feedback process ensures 
that the appraisal process is a two -way process giving associates the ability to 
assess their managers and share the feedback directly with their skip -level 
managers. we also have a robust grievance redressal process in place where 
associates can raise a complaint if they have been treated unfairly.
Regular performance feedback discussions between managers and team provide an 
opportunity to provide real -time guidance, recognize achievements, and address any 
performance gaps. While performance feedback discussions between managers and 
team members happen regularly, formal performance evaluation happens twice a 
year, through the mid -term review and an annual performance review. the entire 
performance management lifecycle is digitized through our individual development 
enabling appraisal system ( Ide@s ) application which is used as a centralized system 
for the execution, tracking and maintenance of the performance management 
process .
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Employee Development Programs: We support our associates to grow and 
leverage the skills currency. Our employee development programs such as Tech 
Mahindra's Women Leadership Program (WLP) had a participation rate of 5%and 
AQT Framework (AQTF) program had a participation rate of 15% of FTEs in FY 
2022 -23.
Employee Benefits: We go above and beyond to ensure that each of our associates 
feel safe and secure, cared for and well -supported in their work. 100% of our 
permanent workforce enjoys Health Insurance , Accident Insurance , Maternity 
Benefits (including Parental Leave for Primary Caregiver up to 26 weeks and for the 
Non-Primary Caregiver up to 1 week), Paternity Benefits and Sabbatical Leave 
benefits (other than Parental Leave) to cater to any Personal/Family* exigencies 
along with Daycare/Childcare facilities, Breast -feeding/Lactation facilities etc. at the 
office premises.
* Family includes Parents, Spouse, Same -Sex Partners, Siblings, Parents -in-law, Children31From an environmental perspective, Tech Mahindra’s priorities are sourcing renewable 
energy, becoming net -zero and water positive, and adopting circular economy 
principles while protecting and promoting biodiversity. We promote awareness of the 
need for environmental protection and encourage imbibing sustainability as a way of 
life amongst our associates and all our other stakeholders. 
We consciously make strategic investments in low -carbon technology and the 
procurement of eco -friendly products. In addition, our green solutions portfolio 
combines our technical expertise and technology to develop solutions that help 
customers address their environmental and climate -impact -related challenges.
Two of our locations are ISO 
14001:2015 certified with 33.16% 
coverageWe have taken combined target to 
reduce 58.8% of our Scope 1+2 
emissions by FY 2029 -30from 
114,309 MTCO2e in base year FY 
2015 -16. Thus, we need to reduce 
proportionate % of Scope 1 emissions 
to 10,122.15 MTCO2e and Scope 2 
emissions to 70,580.01 MTCO2e in FY 
2022 -23
We have taken a target to reduce 2% 
our scope 3 emissions by FY 2025 -26 
against the base year FY 2015 -16. 
Thus, we need to reduce to 46,566 
MTCO2e in FY 2022 -23.We have taken target to increase our 
Renewable energy to 50% and reduce 
Non-renewable energy consumption 
to 50% by FY 2024 -25 from 152, 
860 MWh in base year FY 2015 -16. 
Thus, we need to reduce NRE 
consumption to 93,414.44 MWh in FY 
2022 -23
We have taken target to decrease our 
water withdrawal from 0.88 million 
cubic meters by 20% to 0.70 million 
cubic meters. Thus, we need to reduce 
to 0.76 million cubic meters in FY 
2022 -23.Our Average PUE is 1.96 and RE share 
of our data center is 33% for FY 
2022 -23. We have taken target to 
reduce our power usage efficiency by 
2% from FY21 and increase RE share 
to 50% by FY 2024 -25. Thus, the 
target for PUE is 1.97 and RE share of 
data center is 33% for FY 2022 -23.
We have taken target to have 100% 
of our 13 owned locations certified for 
ZWL by FY 2025 -26. Our target for 
waste disposal is 115.28 metric 
tonnes for FY 2022 -23.Through Renewable Energy, LEDs and 
motion sensors installation and Green 
building practices implementation, we 
have saved 28,978.70 MTCO2e of 
GHG emissions . Virtualized 16,838 
servers (both internal and external) 
saved 79,930 MTCO2e.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
32
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
33
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
The Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee of the Board reviews and 
has an oversight towards meeting 
environment, health and safety 
obligations towards all stakeholders as 
specified in their Terms of Reference 
(ToR). Hence, it is also responsible for 
the implementation of OHS Policy .34Assessing Impacts
Identifying and Assessing Impacts 
to gauge the nature and extent of 
human rights risks
Integrating and Taking 
Actions
Acting to prevent and mitigate 
risks to people, including  via  
integration  within  internal 
functions and processesCommunicating
Appropriate communication of
performance withrespect to
addressing human rights impacts
Tracking Performance
Tracking of effectiveness of risk 
mitigation responses over time; 
and
Gathering 
Relevant 
InformationConsulting
StakeholdersPerforming 
Corporate 
Business Impact 
AssessmentsMapping Human 
Rights Risks And 
Prioritizing 
ActionI. Identifying and Assessing the Impacts
II. The Integration Process
In order to prevent and mitigate adverse human rights impacts, we integrate the findings from their 
impact assessments across relevant internal functions and processes and take appropriate action.
III. Tracking performance and reporting
Type of system used to track performance
Companies can choose whatever performance tracking system suits them 
best. The tracking performance system can be based on models already 
being used in the field of health and safety or environmental performance 
and the human rights process can be integrated into existing systems. It 
helps to promote standardization of the process. However, it is necessary 
to always take into account the specific human rights features. 
Gathering existing data 
The systems used within the 
company can be an initial source of 
relevant data on how well 
processes are working: reports on 
grievance mechanisms, audits, 
employee surveys/ polls, country 
reports, performance survey, etc. A 
grievance mechanism within the 
company will allow stakeholders to 
say whether in their opinion, 
responses given were effective and 
appropriate.Choosing indicators to track 
performance
For each human rights issue, it 
should be determined whether or 
not well -known and established 
indicators already exist for certain 
issues, which data could be 
gathered from within the company 
and whether the opinion of 
stakeholders should be sought 
directly.
The company’s risk management & HR Compliance department is involved 
so as to integrate the “respect for human rights” criteria in all   risk 
management processes across the company. In support of this initiative, 
experts in human rights  also make it possible to identify and assess 
specific risks in an appropriate way.GRI 
DisclosureIssue
GRI 401 Employment
GRI 402Labor Management 
Relations
GRI 403Occupational Health and 
Safety
GRI 404 Training and Education
GRI 405Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
GRI 406 Non-Discrimination
GRI 407Freedom of Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining
GRI 408 Child Labor
GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory 
Labor
GRI 410 Security Practices
GRI 411Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples
GRI 412Human Rights 
Assessment
GRI 413 Local Communities
GRI 414Supplier Social 
Assessment
GRI 415 Public Policy
GRI 416 Customer Privacy
GRI 419Socio Economic 
ComplianceHuman Rights Performance 
Indicators (GRI)
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
35SynthesesIV. Communicating and Reporting
•We ensure, communicating externally/Internally to address our Human Right impacts particularly to 
stakeholders affected by their businesses.
•Transparent communications include exchanges with stakeholders, establishing mechanisms to interact 
with the company (information, hot line, remedy mechanisms, etc.).
•The more transparent a company is, the better the action it takes and the efforts it makes to respect 
human rights will be perceived and the more dialogue with stakeholders will be worthwhile.
A Human Rights Risk Mapping Matrix And Action To Be Taken
EqualityFreedom from 
DiscriminationFreedom of 
AssociationRight to Privacy Freedom of Training
Scope : Organization Source: Organization Source: Organization Source: Organization Source: Organization
Stakeholder: D&I HeadStakeholder: Ombudsman 
officerStakeholder: BHR Head Stakeholder: DPO Stakeholder: L&D Head
Impact : 
equality are developing 
positive values and 
morals in society, just 
and fair environment 
and people understand 
importance of equality in 
workplace, general life, 
competition, and gender -
based situation.Impact :
Effects are not limited to 
physical but also mental 
effects on the employee 
include depression, 
developing anxiety 
disorders, loss of self 
control leading to the 
employee becoming 
hostile. Perceived 
discrimination has effects 
on both the employee 
and the work 
environment.Impact :
Enable associates to 
join together to protect 
better not only their 
own economic interests 
but also their civil 
freedoms such as the 
right to life, to security, 
to integrity, and to 
personal and collective 
freedom. Impact : 
Data privacy and 
security can put the 
company’s, employee’s 
and customers’ data at 
risk. Inadequate 
prevention, detection, 
and remediation of data 
security threats can 
influence customer 
acquisition and 
retention. Data 
disclosure or movement 
or copying without
approval or 
Authorization. Impact : 
It's a way to close skills 
gaps and make 
employees more 
competent in their 
current and future roles. 
Benefits the employees 
to perform their tasks 
better and a company 
can easily accomplish 
their objectives.
Action :
• D&I and human 
rights policy
• Remuneration and 
salaries are paid 
and isn’t biased on 
equal salary ratio 
(for both).
• Representation of 
women: 31.75%
• Mandate 50% 
women hiring from 
campus
• Creating 
opportunities for 
people with 
disabilities through 
SMART.
• Mandate e -learning 
training followed 
by an assessment 
once in every two 
years.Action : 
•Policy on bullying and 
harassment at 
workplace anti -
discrimination, POSH 
and CEBC are in place.
•Grievance mechanism 
under whistle blower 
policy.
•Training and 
awareness sessions Action :
Have associate groups 
representing diverse 
backgrounds, affinities 
and skills facilitate 
community 
participation, 
networking, cultural 
enrichment and 
support, based on 
gender, affinity, ability 
and sexual orientation.Action :
•Privacy, data privacy 
and protection policy 
are in place.
•Associates have the 
right to ask for copy 
of personal data; to 
correct, delete or 
restrict/ object 
processing of 
personal data. 
•Data 
transfer/processor 
agreement in place 
with customers.Action :
Emphasizes associate 
engagement, 
satisfaction, re -skilling 
and wellness to ensure 
talent retention and 
attrition reduction 
through progressive 
policies, career 
development plans, tie -
ups with colleges and 
30+ online education 
partners; future skilling 
Initiative and bench -
reskilling.
Right To  EqualityFreedom From 
DiscriminationFreedom Of 
AssociationRight To 
PrivacyFreedom Of 
Training
Operations
Supply Chains
Customer Centricity
Human Resources
Research & Development
Finance
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.36Labour
Management 
RelationsComment :
Appointment letters to security 
guards did not have salary 
details. It was blank and signed 
by the security guards.
Shift change mechanism was 
not evidenced for security 
guards.Response :
Advised the third -party vendor 
agency to ensure that the 
appointment letters should have 
the salary details along with 
necessary terms and conditions 
accepted and counter signed by 
the worker.
Initiated shift change mechanism as 
a best practices at every site level.
Health &
SafetyComment :
H&S and works committees 
were not established at site 
level.
The process of periodically 
testing and exercising the 
planned response capability is 
not effective. i.e., fire drill in 
night shift is not done.Response :
Provision to form HSE committees 
with the H&S trained SPOCs from 
location council at every site level.
Ensure fire drill covers all the shifts.
Human 
Rights 
AssessmentComment :
No social risk assessment 
evident.Response :
Initiated social risk assessment 
procedures by including the 
necessary human rights clauses 
for the sites .
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
Due Diligence
Before commencing business activities, we assess human rights issues and impacts on 
company operations and include key stakeholders such as employees, women, children, third 
party employees, local communities, and indigenous people in our human rights due diligence 
process. As a global organization, we assess risks related to human rights along the corporate 
operations and value chain, including new business relationships such as mergers, acquisitions, 
and joint ventures. We analyze certain risks and perform due diligence on certain potentially 
material aspects related to human rights such as forced and child labor, human trafficking, 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, equal remuneration, discrimination, and 
privacy.37
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Human Rights Assessment
Certificate -Noida38
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Human Rights Assessment
Certificate -Chandigarh39
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Human Rights Assessment
Certificate -Hyderabad40Independent Directors on Board
The company has a robust governance structure for ESG with the right balance of 
diversity, skills, and years of experience. Diversity of gender (with a ratio of 6:4), age (two 
directors below 50), tenure (average tenure of 7.8 years) and nationality (30% other 
nationalities on the current Board provides a wide variety of perspectives and knowledge 
that guides Tech Mahindra’s current and future strategic direction.
Tech Mahindra has 6 Independent directors on board which is compliant with the section 
149 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17 (1) (b) of the SEBI regulations, 
2015. So, considering the above criterion for independent directors on board, we abide by 
the norms and have minimum/target share of at least 33.33% (or one -third ) of 
independent directors on board.
Board Meeting Attendance
In compliance with the Section 167 (1) (b) of the Companies Act, 2013, TechM has a 
minimum attendance of at least one meeting for its Board members. TechM abides 
by the norms and had a target of minimum attendance of 20% for Board members 
(based on the total number of 5 board meetings held for FY 2022 -23).
Election and Re-election of Directors on Board
At Tech Mahindra, we follow the election & re-election guidelines according to the 
Section 152 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 wherein 33.33% of directors (other than 
independent) on board are liable to be elected or re -elected during Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). Also, during AGM, as per SEBI Regulation 4 (2) (a) (v & vii), we allow 
every shareholder to be an effective stakeholder in exercising their right of election 
of members of the Board. Section 149 (13) of the Act also states that the above 
provisions shall not be applicable to the appointment of independent directors.
Also, during AGM, as per SEBI Regulation 4 (2) (a) (v & vii), we allow every shareholder 
to be an effective stakeholder in exercising their right of election of members of the 
Board.
Board Diversity Policy
Tech Mahindra believes that the company’s board should consist of candidates from 
diverse backgrounds and have a balanced composition of independent and non -
independent directors meeting the criteria of independence set out in Companies Act, 
2013 and SEBI Regulations, 2015. The Nominations and Remuneration Committee 
has defined the standards of Board Diversity policy and ensures the Board nomination 
process is in line with the diversity policy that considers the diversity of thought, 
perspective, knowledge, skills, expertise, qualifications, regional and industry 
experience, cultural background, age, ethnicity, nationality, race, and gender, to 
achieve its strategic and commercial objectives. The policy on Board diversity is 
available at https://insights.techmahindra.com/investors/policy -of-board -diversity.pdf
Other Mandates
Section 165 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 states on the number of directorships: 
No person, shall hold office as a director, including any alternate directorship, in more 
than twenty companies at the same time, provided that the maximum number of 
public companies in which a person can be appointed as a director shall not exceed 
ten.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
41 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Tech Mahindra has complied with the following criteria for the independence 
of Board of Directors for FY 2022 -23:
1.The director must not have been employed by the company in an executive 
capacity within the last year.
2.The director must not be a “family member of an individual who is employed by 
the company or by any parent or subsidiary of the company as an executive 
officer”.
3.The director must not be affiliated with a significant customer or supplier of the 
company.
4.The director must have no personal services contract(s) with the company or be a 
member of the company’s senior management.
5.The director must not be affiliated with a not -for-profit entity that receives 
significant contributions from the company.
6.The director must not have been a partner or employee of the company’s outside 
auditor during the past year.
7.The director must not have any other conflict of interest that the board itself 
determines to not be considered independent.Compliance Statement for the Independence 
of the Board of Directors42CEO Compensation
Tech Mahindra’s governance practices are aligned with a focus on being a purpose -led, 
people -centric and performance -driven organization. Our strong governance 
framework led by robust policies & standards ensures that there is no conflict of 
interest amongst any stakeholders associated with the organization. 
At TechM, CEO compensation is viewed as an important factor that can have an 
impact on the performance of our organization.
The remuneration of the MD & CEO of Tech Mahindra includes fixed salary and 
variable compensation as commission as determined by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (NRC) based on the achievement of various parameters set 
out in the agreed annual goals. 
Tech Mahindra follows a Balanced Score Card (BSC) approach to align the objectives 
at the organization level, function level and the individual level and monitor the 
company’s performance against these strategic goals. The BSC that is prepared for 
the CEO includes Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) as a Financial Returns Metric 
for determining their variable compensation. The NRC of Board determines the 
variable compensation of the CEO, annually based on their individual and organization 
performance.
The ROCE of Tech Mahindra for the reporting year (FY 2022 -23) was 23.40% with a 
commission (variable compensation) of INR 24.72 million paid to the MD & CEO of 
Tech Mahindra.
Total Shareholder Return -TSR (FY 2022 -23)
Particulars TechM Nifty IT
Total Dividend (YTD) INR         50.00 INR         47.00 
Share Price* as on April 1, 
2022INR   1,487.10 INR   3,551.40 
Share Price* as on March 
31, 2023INR   1,101.85 INR   2,500.83 
TSR -23% -28%
Tech Mahindra’s also the incorporates the use of relative financial metrics such as 
total shareholder return (TSR) to gauge its performance against peers in the 
industry. TSR provides insights on the overall appreciation in the stock price of every 
share of TechM over a specified period of time along with the dividends paid by the 
company on every share.
Driven by the strong performance, the Board of Tech Mahindra recommended a 
dividend of INR 50 per share in FY 2022 -23. The Company has formulated a 
dividend policy which is disclosed on the website of the Company.
The Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of Tech Mahindra for the reporting year (FY 
2022 -23)was -23% which is relatively better than its peers listed on the Nifty IT 
Index, i.e., -28% consisting of 10 Indian IT companies listed on NSE (National Stock 
Exchange).*NSE closing price on respective dates for FY 2022 -23
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
43Management Ownership
At TechM, we realize that our current and future investors and shareholders 
are a part of the extended Tech Mahindra family. We provide accurate, 
detailed, timely and transparent information to them on the financial, and ESG 
performance and the future orientation of the organization.
We firmly believe that the share ownership by the MD & CEO of TechM along 
with other executive committee members (including key managerial personnel 
–KMPs) of the organization can have a profound impact on the financial 
performance of the organization and hence, increased investor and 
shareholder returns. 
Therefore, we encourage them to accumulate some share ownership of the 
organization as compared to their base salary.
Mr. C. P. Gurnani (MD & CEO)
The share ownership* of the MD & CEO of Tech Mahindra during the reporting 
year was 305.59 times their base salary. 
Other Executive committee members 
The share ownership* of the other 2 executive committee members:
•Rohit Anand (CFO) –0.68 times their base salary
•Anil Khatri (Company Secretary) –2.09 times their base salary
Additionally, the total share ownership of these members is 1.14 times their 
base salary.*calculated on the basis of no. of stocks held as on 31stMarch 2023
The share ownership of MD & CEO and other executive committee members 
(including KMPs) of TechM is built up gradually over a period of time. Tech 
Mahindra has a robust compensation & remuneration structure wherein the 
CEO, executives and KMPs are granted ESOPs based on their performance and 
the quantum of their base salary. As compared to peers, this approach ensures 
that these personnel build up a substantial amount of share ownership of 
TechM over time and hence, leads to a positive correlation with the financial 
performance of the organization.
The ratio ofremuneration oftheCEO and MD(considering only thebase
salary, commission andexcluding thevalue ofperquisite ofINR 0.63Mn)to
median remuneration ofemployees (INR 0.662 Mn)is78.75CEO-to-Employee Pay Ratio
Clawback
Our company is governed by the Companies Act 2013 and clauses such as 
Section 199 are applicable for the recovery of remuneration from the 
management in certain cases of clawback . Please refer to Section 199 -
“Recovery of remuneration in certain cases” on pdf page 125 of the Companies 
Act 2013 for more details on the clawback policy applicable to the MD & CEO 
of TechM
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
44Taxonomy
Board Competence on SustainabilityTech Mahindra is committed to responsible, sustainable practices and our ESG 
reporting is based GRI 2021 Standards, IIRC, TCFD, SASB and mandatory BRSR 
(SEBI) frameworks but we are also constantly trying to align ourselves with the 
latest of taxonomies.
While we are awaiting final draft of taxonomy regulation within the framework 
of sustainable financial architecture from Indian authorities, we have voluntarily 
started writing a taxonomy report following EU taxonomy guidelines.
We are developing this report that would meet the EU's standards for 
sustainable finance for year 2023, to be reported in the year 2024. We are 
committed to providing clear and comparable information on our 
environmentally sustainable activities and investments.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
45Which Risks Strategic, Business, Operational, Climate Change Risks
Who 
ManagesEnterprise risk management team (Risk officers and Heads of 
Business Units) headed by CRO and risk management 
committee
How 
ManagesApproach: Bottom -up approach
Through: Risk register
Internal Process: Critical risks prioritized reviewed with 
feedback and guidance form senior leaders assessment 
report is updated. Mitigation strategies and business 
contingency plans developed monitored by: Corporate 
Auditing team
Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Sustainability Officer are 
engaged through a structured process to deliberate on 
possible risks and opportunities from technology -economic -
media -political -legal-environmental -social perspective
Indoor Air Quality
Employees Health 
Risk
Carbon Tax
Fuel and Energy Tax
Regulatory Change/ 
Visa Risk
Global Economic 
RiskCurrency Risk
Occupational Health 
and Safety
Natural Disaster
Climate Risk in Supply 
Chain
Water Quality and 
Security Risk
Competition RiskPrivacy Risk
 Climate Action 
Failure Risk
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
46
 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Tech Mahindra conducts assessment and evaluation of the Risk Management process 
framework in order to incorporate and implement continuous improvements in our Risk 
Management systems.
Such assessment and audits help us obtain an understanding of the systems, processes
and controls for identification and management of key enterprise risks for the 
organization.
We conduct, both, Internal as well as external audits for evaluating and monitoring the 
risk management performance of TechM on a periodic basis.
Internal Audit
The audit committee of the Board of Tech Mahindra is responsible for evaluation of 
internal financial controls and risk management systems as laid down in the terms of 
reference ( ToR) of the committee. It meets the criteria laid down under Section 177 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
At the Executive level, the internal audit function, headed by the Chief Internal Auditor, 
monitors, audits and conducts half -yearly audit reviews of all relevant internal processes, 
systems, and controls as mandated by the Companies Act, 2013.
External Audit
One of the "Big Four" accounting firms have been appointed by Tech Mahindra Ltd. for 
conducting audits of the internal risk management processes (including, risk 
management performances). They work closely with the Chief Internal Auditor andthe 
team of Internal audit function to review and provide feedback on the risks and risk 
management processes and report the audit findings to the Audit committee of the 
Board on a quarterly basis.
The Chief Internal Auditor and the appointed external advisor (one of the "Big Four" 
accounting firms) for the audit function, also report their audit findings to the risk 
management committee (RMC) of the Board on a quarterly basis. The Managing Director 
& CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief Risk Officer (CRO) are the permanent 
invitees to the meetings of the Committee.
Further, Tech Mahindra hires an external agency to review internal financial controls 
(IFC) every 6 months. The Scope of assessment includes entity level controls (ELC) with 
various controls encompassing the Risk Management processes.
Example –In FY 2022 -23, one of the significant risks identified was stakeholders not following the 
mandatory TechM code of conduct policies or following incorrect processes, which could lead to 
improper recruitment practices and vendor empanelment, unethical transfers and promotions, and 
allowances based on bribes (monetary or otherwise) between internal and external stakeholders.Risk Management Audits
Potential Sources
of Feedback:
▪Reporting mechanisms
▪Investigations
▪Data mining
▪Other stakeholders or external parties
▪Enterprise -wide risk management initiativesPotential Receivers
of Feedback:
▪Risk Management trainings
▪System checks
▪Predictive Analytics models
▪Risk assessmentsRisk Feedback Mechanism47Artificial Intelligence
As the world witnesses unprecedented growth in artificial intelligence (AI) 
technologies, it is essential to consider the potential risks and challenges 
associated with their widespread adoption. AI does present some significant 
risks —from job displacement to security and privacy concerns —and 
encouraging awareness of these issues can help us in engaging actions 
towards AI's legal, ethical, and societal implications.
Whether it’s the increasing automation of certain jobs, gender and racially 
biased algorithms or lack of transparency, data privacy and security, unease 
about AI adoption abounds on a number of fronts. Additionally, we’re still in 
the very early stages of understanding what AI is really capable of and the 
impact it can have on our society.
Description Impact Mitigating actions
Lack of Transparency
AI and deep learning models can be 
difficult to understand, even for 
those that work directly with the 
technology. This leads to a lack of 
transparency for how and why AI 
comes to its conclusions, creating a 
lack of explanation for what data AI 
algorithms use, or why they may 
make biased or unsafe decisions. 
These concerns have given rise to 
the use of explainable AI, but there’s 
still a long way before transparent 
AI systems become a common 
practice.
Further, lack of transparency in AI 
systems, particularly in deep 
learning models that can be 
complex and difficult to interpret, is 
a pressing issue. This opaqueness 
obscures the decision -making 
processes and underlying logic of 
these technologies.When people can’t 
comprehend how an AI 
system arrives at its 
conclusions, it can lead 
to distrust and 
resistance to adopting 
these technologies.Standard practices 
and model 
documentation –
Data science, legal, 
and risk personnel 
must understand 
important aspects 
of AI models and 
the environment in 
which they are 
trained and 
deployed, so they 
can surface areas of 
risk. Simply put, 
organizations 
cannot control an AI 
environment they 
don’t understand. 
Setting clear 
standards for model 
development and 
documentation can 
help provide such 
foundational 
transparency.
Lack of 
Transparency
Job 
Displacement
Lack of Data 
Privacy and 
SecurityAlgorithmic 
Bias
Social and 
Economic 
Inequalities
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
48Description Impact Mitigation
Job Displacement
AI-driven job automation is a 
pressing concern as the 
technology is adopted in various 
industries. It has the potential to 
lead to job losses and as AI 
technologies continue to 
develop and become more 
efficient, the workforce must 
adapt & acquire new skills to 
remain relevant in the changing 
landscape. While AI is estimated 
to create 97 million new jobs by 
2025, many employees won’t 
have the skills needed for these 
technical roles and could get left 
behind if companies don’t upskill 
their workforces. Moreover, it 
has the potential to create 
significant job losses in millions 
by 2030.As AI technologies 
become smarter and 
more dexterous, the 
same tasks will require 
fewer humans leading 
to losses in full -time 
jobs.Investments in new -
age technological 
skills, including 
carefully curated 
training programs for 
upskilling the existing 
workforce. 
Additionally, focus on 
man-machine 
collaborations towards 
enhanced outputs, as 
well as being cognizant 
of the evolving needs 
of employees’ 
upskilling, learning and 
development needs 
can help enhance the 
future -readiness of our 
workforce.
Towards this, we have 
also built elaborate 
platforms to help our 
associates constantly 
upskill themselves.
Lack of Data Privacy and 
Security
AI technologies often collect and 
analyze large amounts of 
personal data, raising issues 
related to data privacy and 
security. 
As AI technologies become 
increasingly sophisticated, the 
security risks associated with 
their use and the potential for 
misuse also increase. Hackers 
and malicious actors can harness 
the power of AI to develop more 
advanced cyberattacks, bypass 
security measures, and exploit 
vulnerabilities in systems.
AI systems often collect 
personal data to customize user 
experiences or to help train the 
AI models. While there are laws 
present to protect personal 
information in some cases, there 
are no explicit federal laws that 
protects citizens from data 
privacy harm experienced by AI.Generative AI tools may 
possibly share user 
information with third 
parties, such as vendors 
or service providers, 
without prior notice. 
This has the potential 
to violate privacy laws 
in many jurisdictions.To mitigate data 
privacy and security 
risks, we must 
advocate for strict 
data protection 
regulations and safe 
data handling 
practices. Further, 
governments and 
organizations need to 
develop best practices 
for secure AI 
development and 
deployment and foster 
international 
cooperation to 
establish global norms 
and regulations that 
protect against AI 
security threats. For 
example, AI regulations 
have already been 
implemented in China 
and the EU, with 
proposed regulations 
emerging in USA, 
Canada, India and UK 
among others.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
49Description Impact Mitigation
Algorithmic Bias
AI systems can inadvertently 
perpetuate or amplify societal 
biases due to biased training 
data or algorithmic design. 
Various forms of AI bias are 
detrimental too. In addition to 
data and algorithmic bias (the 
latter of which can “amplify” the 
former), AI is developed by 
humans —and humans are 
inherently biased.Human workers, of 
course, have biases and 
make mistakes, but the 
consequences of their 
errors are limited to the 
volume of work they do 
before the errors are 
caught --which is often 
not very much. 
However, the 
consequences of biases 
or hidden errors in 
operational AI systems 
can be exponentially 
larger. As experts quote 
–
“Humans might make 
dozens of mistakes in a 
day, but a bot handling 
millions of transactions 
a day magnifies by 
millions any single 
error.”To minimize 
discrimination and 
ensure fairness, it is 
crucial to invest in the 
development of 
unbiased algorithms 
and diverse training 
data sets.
Social and Economic 
Inequalities
AI has the potential to 
contribute to social and 
economic inequalities by 
disproportionally benefiting 
some individuals and 
corporations. For instance, the 
concentration of AI development 
and ownership within a small 
number of large corporations 
and governments can 
exacerbate this inequality as 
they accumulate wealth and 
power while smaller businesses 
struggle to compete.
Further, widening socioeconomic 
inequality sparked by AI -driven 
job loss is another cause for 
concern, revealing the class 
biases of how AI is applied. For 
instance, blue -collar workers 
who perform more manual, 
repetitive tasks have 
experienced wage declines as 
high as 70% because of 
automation. Meanwhile, white -
collar workers have remained 
largely untouched, with some 
even enjoying higher wages.As discussed above, job 
losses due to AI -driven 
automation are more 
likely to affect low -
skilled workers, leading 
to a growing income 
gap and reduced 
opportunities for social 
mobility.Policies and initiatives 
that promote 
economic equity —like 
reskilling programs, 
social safety nets, and 
inclusive AI 
development that 
ensures a more 
balanced distribution 
of opportunities —can 
help combat social & 
economic inequalities.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
50Managing AI Risks
The artificial intelligence (AI) landscape has changed dramatically over the past year 
with the swift adoption of generative AI ( GenAI ), making it more difficult for 
organizations to be responsible with the technology and putting pressure on 
Responsible AI programs to keep up with continuous advances. 
To respond to the shifts of this magnitude, requires us to stay ahead of the digital 
transformation curve.  At TechM, our strategy of NXT.NOWTM drives us towards 
embracing such disruptive technologies that are emerging at an accelerated pace. 
Our strategy of NXT.NOWTMis helping us drive strategic focus towards adopting 
increasingly intelligent technologies and staying at our core, a cognitive enterprise.
In line with our organization -wide philosophy of RISE, we’ve developed a systematic 
approach to identify AI risks in each business context.
Privacy Security FairnessTransparency 
and 
ExplainabilitySafety and 
PerformanceThird -party 
risks
DataModel Selection & 
TrainingDeployment & 
InfrastructureContracts & 
InsuranceLegal & 
RegulatoryOrganization 
& CultureAI risk assessment framework
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
51Geoeconomic Confrontation and Fragmentation
Conflicts and geo -economic tensions have created a domino effect of 
interconnected global risks including energy and supply chain crunches. This 
flags some immediate concerns such as cost -of-living crisis, debt and rapid or 
sustained inflation.
It comes amidst a global backdrop of energy supply crises and price shocks, 
supply -driven inflation, threats to food availability and growing cyberattacks 
on critical infrastructure. At the same time, these crises andrisks are 
undermining global efforts to tackle other long -term risks, notably those 
related to climate change, biodiversity and investments in human capital.
Description Impact Mitigation
As policymakers and business 
leaders head to Davos, the global 
economy faces perhaps its biggest 
test since the Second World War.
Over the past three decades, flows 
of capital, goods, services, and 
people have transformed our world, 
helped by the spread of new 
technologies and ideas. These forces 
of integration have boosted 
productivity and living standards, 
tripling the size of the global 
economy and lifting 1.3 billion 
people out of extreme poverty. But 
the successes of such integrations 
have also brought complacency. 
Inequalities of income, wealth, and 
opportunities have continued to 
worsen within too many countries 
for a long time —and across 
countries in recent years.
Tensions over trade, technology 
standards, and security have been 
growing for many years, 
undermining growth —and trust in 
the current global economic system. 
For instance, uncertainties around 
trade policies alone reduced global 
gross domestic product by nearly 
1% in 2019, according to IMF 
research. Additionally, since the war 
in Ukraine started, around 30 
countries have restricted trade in 
food, energy, and other key 
commodities.The costs of further 
disintegration could be 
enormous across 
countries and people 
at every income level 
could be hurt —from 
highly -paid 
professionals and 
middle -income 
employees, to low -paid 
workers. 
Further, the impacts of 
reconfigured supply 
chains can create 
disruptions and lead to 
higher barriers to 
investments. They 
could also make it 
more difficult for 
companies in 
developing nations to 
sell their products & 
services, co -innovate 
and stoke inflation. For 
instance, IMF research 
estimates that 
technological 
fragmentation alone 
can lead to losses of 
5% of GDP for many 
countries.To restore trust 
that the rules -based 
global system can 
work well for all 
countries, we must 
weave our economic 
fabric in new and 
better ways. If we 
can start by 
focusing on urgent 
issues where 
progress will clearly 
benefit everyone, 
we can build the 
trust needed to 
cooperate in other 
areas where there is 
disagreement. 
In addition to urgent 
and co-ordinated
action, joint efforts 
between countries 
as well as public -
private cooperation 
can also strengthen 
financial stability, 
technology 
governance, 
economic 
development and 
investments in 
research, science, 
education and 
health.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
52 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
Here are four priorities that can be advanced by working 
together:
1.Strengthen trade to increase resilience –We can start now by 
lowering trade barriers to alleviate shortages and lower the prices of 
various products.
2.Step up joint efforts –With roughly 60% of low -income countries 
with significant debt vulnerabilities, some will need debt restructuring. 
Without decisive cooperation to ease their burdens, both they and 
their creditors will be worse off. But a return to debt sustainability will 
draw new investment and spur inclusive growth. That is why the 
Group of Twenty’s Common Framework for Debt Treatment must be 
improved without delay. This means putting in place clear procedures 
and timelines for debtors and creditors —and making the framework 
available to other highly -indebted vulnerable countries.
3.Modernize cross -border payments –Inefficient payment systems are 
another barrier to inclusive growth. Take remittances: the average 
cost of an international transfer is 6.3%. This means some $45 billion 
per year are diverted into the hands of intermediaries —and away 
from millions of lower -income households.
4.Confront climate change –During the COP26 climate conference, 
130 countries, representing over 80% of global emissions, committed 
to achieve net -zero carbon by around mid -century. But we urgently 
need to close the gap between ambition and policy. To accelerate the 
green transition, the IMF has argued for a comprehensive approach 
that combines carbon pricing and investment in renewables, and 
compensation for those adversely affected.
53
Our volunteer participation was 1170+ hours in FY 2022 -23
Green MarshalGo-Green 
through CNG 
ServiceTerrace 
Gardening 
(To grow own 
food) 
Bamboo 
Product a nd
Paper Bag 
Stall
Awareness 
Session by 
Greenpeace
Sapling 
Distribution 
on Earth 
day
Free PUC 
Check up 
CampGreen 
Food 
FestivalAwareness 
Session on 
Water 
conservationSwachh
Bharat 
AbhiyanWorld 
Environment 
DayPlantation 
Drive
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
54Commitment to Net Positive Gain
Tech Mahindra understands that biodiversity is an important resource for our growth 
and development. We are committed to conserve and enhance biodiversity, to 
incorporate biodiversity into our day -to-day operations and promote sustainable 
business practices that will not harm any species. Our Biodiversity policy 
https://files.techmahindra.com/static/img/pdf/biodiversity -policy.pdf guides our 
business decisions and actions across business activities and processes with 
biodiversity risks. We are committed to reduce our carbon footprints in an effective 
manner. Tree plantations help in preserving biodiversity while also removing carbon 
dioxide from the atmosphere. It is beyond our restoration and avoidance activities. To 
achieve such reduction in carbon footprints, we have collaborated with NGOs and 
hosted multiple initiatives through Green Marshals to plant trees in and around our 
campuses. We have planted 92,750+ trees in the last 7 years. We enabled drives to 
ban single -use plastics at our campuses to save biodiversity and aquatic life. We used 
bottle crusher plant to prevent plastic bottles being dumped in landfills and further 
recycled and reused. None of Tech Mahindra Facilities, owned or leased, is adjacent to 
protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. There are no IUCN Red List species 
or national conservation list species in the vicinity of our locations. We conduct 
biodiversity assessments before building new projects, so that the project can be 
designed and implemented effectively and sustainably. We are implementing green 
building practices to reduce any surrounding environmental impact. Green building 
practices ensures use of less toxic substance and VOC's. It creates net positive impact 
on climate and natural environment and improve quality of life. Green building 
supports ecosystem by promoting use of energy efficient products, water and clean 
energy. We conduct quiz on restoring ecosystems, promoting ecofriendly products and 
biodiversity. We conduct the Biodiversity Photography Contest for our associates, and 
their families to promote biodiversity and its net gain.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
55Commitment to avoidance of negative impacts on threatened and 
protected species
Tech Mahindra’s priorities are sourcing renewable energy, becoming net -zero 
and water positive, and adopting circular economy principles while protecting 
and promoting biodiversity. We have green landscapes across locations with 
diverse species of plants, trees, and shrubs in abundance. The serene ambience 
is intensified when associates enjoy the swans in the pond at our campuses. 
This encourages the associates to appreciate the importance of diversity 
among all life species and understand how all life forms are interdependent and 
impact each other.
Does your organization assess the impact of its value chain on 
biodiversity?
There is a heightened need to conserve biodiversity, the species, flora, and 
fauna. We ensure that we do not adversely impact biodiversity through our 
operations. here are no IUCN Red List species or national conservation list 
species in the vicinity of our locations. Our policy and initiatives enable us to 
promote biodiversity conservation. We discourage use of single use plastic at 
our campuses and by our stakeholders that disturbs aquatic life. We ensure 
that none of our operations in the value chain have a negative impact on 
biodiversity by complying with all the conditions identified and recommended 
during environmental audits and assessments. We use less toxic products and 
ensure no harm to surrounding ecosystem. We conduct plantation drives and 
reforestation through drones. We actively monitor suppliers to ensure 
environmental stewardship and biodiversity conservation. We assess our key 
suppliers and partners through a  supply chain questionnaire, which checked 
regulatory compliances with various aspects of ethical business conduct and 
sustainability practices.
Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.
56 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Moderate Significant
To TechMTo Stakeholders
MajorModerate Significant MajorTalent and Skill Management
Environment Social Governance BusinessWellness and Safety
Innovation
Ethics and ComplianceCorporate Governance
Economic PerformanceClimate Change
Energy Management
Cyber Security and Data 
Privacy
Human Rights
Risk Management
Employee Engagement
Customer RelationshipD&I
Supply Chain Management
Corporate Citizenship (CSR)Stakeholder Relationship
Waste Management
Water Stewardship
BiodiversityBusiness Model 
ResilienceWorkplace Practices
Legal and Regulatory 
ManagementFinancial MaterialityEnvironment and Social 
Materiality
To the extent necessary for an 
understanding of the company’s 
development, performance, and position……and impact of its activities
Company
Climate 
Change Impact 
on CompanyDouble Materiality
In 2011, GRI published its G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which presented a new 
definition of “materiality” as topics and indicators that
•reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts; or
•would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
This constituted a meaningfully different use of the term “materiality” . Users were 
redefined as “stakeholders” , a term that is widely understood to include not only investors 
but also a broader set of users, including civil society, communities, employees, customers, 
governments, and suppliers. Also, users and their objectives were not identified as the only 
determination of materiality; an organization’s significant impacts on the economy, 
environment or people could be determined as material under this new definition.
Climate Company
Company 
Impact on 
Climate
Climate
Primary Audience: InvestorsPrimary Audience: Consumers, Civil 
Society, Employees, InvestorsCompany Impact on Climate 
can be Financially Material
* Financial Materiality is used here in the broad sense of affecting the value of the company, not just in the sense of affec ting measures 
recognized in the financial statements.RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TCFD
Double Materiality MatrixNON -FINANCIAL REPORTING DIRECTIVE
Competitive BehaviorAt TechM, we have conducted double materiality which helps us analyze the implications of material issues for the company’s f inancial value 
and company’s impact on society & environment at large.57 Copyright © 2023 Tech Mahindra. All Rights Reserved.Material Issues (Executive Compensation)
The below balanced scorecard (BSC) metrics are used for determining the executive 
compensation of our leaders (CEO, CPO, CFO, CSO, Innovation Head, CRO, CISO) which 
are linked to the key material topics identified for enterprise value creation –talent 
and skill management, innovation and climate change :
•Talent and Skill Management:
▪CEO (Chief Executive Officer) –% of digital certified workforce (across IT, 
including freshers and excluding subsidiaries), annualized Attrition %, ESAT 
score
▪CPO (Chief People Officer) –Leadership and talent onboarding , attrition %, 
MCARES score
▪CSO (Chief Sustainability Officer) –% of employees trained (employee 
awareness on sustainability)
▪Innovation Head –Creating a culture of Innovation across TechM
▪CRO (Chief Risk Officer) –Enhance risk awareness andcontrols (in-house 
trainings conducted)
•Innovation:
▪CEO (Chief Executive Officer) –Future bets andinnovation
▪Innovation Head –Creating a culture of Innovation across TechM, SBU 
innovation index, innovative climate change solutions, agri-tech, space tech, 
defence tech, demonstrating thought leadership in the region (published 
papers, awards, patents, co -creation)
▪CISO (Chief Information Security Officer) –Automation
•Climate Change:
▪CEO (Chief Executive Officer) –Reduction in GHG emissions, reduction in 
water intensity
▪CSO (Chief Sustainability Officer) –Optimization of processes, climate risk 
management, benchmark and integrate climate -related issues into strategy, 
monitoring, reviewing environment targets,. integrated report, environment 
roadmap targets
▪CPO (Chief People Officer) –Reduction in GHG emissions, reduction in water 
Intensity
▪CFO (Chief Financial Officer) –Sustainable financing and climate change
▪Innovation Head –Innovative climate change solutions
▪CRO (Chief Risk Officer) –Climate change monitoring, reviewing risks, and 
impactswww.youtube.com/user/techmahindra09
www.facebook.com/techmahindra
www.twitter.com/tech_mahindra
www.linkedin.com/company/tech -mahindra
www.techmahindra.com
top.marketing@techmahindra.com
Copyright ©Tech Mahindra 2023. AllRights Reserved.
Disclaimer. Brand names, logos andtrademarks used herein remain theproperty oftheir respective owners.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
